[do not merge] docs(adr): pause unbonding peruid during equivocation proposal (#1)
allinbits/interchain-security: docs/docs/adrs/adr-007-pause-unbonding-on-eq-prop.md

week has passed since the equivocation, it is possible that the validator in
question could unbond and get away without being slashed, since the unbonding
period is 3 weeks, and the voting period is 3 weeks. For this reason, it might
be good to pause unbondings for validators named in an equivocation slashing
proposal until the proposal's voting period is over.

## Decision

### How

Pausing the unbonding period is already possible thanks to the changes in the
staking module of the cosmos-sdk:
- `stakingKeeper.PutUnbondingOnHold` pauses an unbonding period
- `stakingKeeper.UnbondingCanComplete` unpauses an unbonding period

Those methods use a counter under the hood, which means we can use them without 
conflicts with the *Completion of Unbonding Operations* system. Giving an
unbonding period (already paused by definition because of the *Completion of
Unbonding Operations* system), an additional pause will just increase the
counter, so when this unbonding period has reached its maturity on all provider
and consumer chain, it will remain paused.

### When pause

The unbonding period (if there's any) should paused once an equivocation

> proposal is activated (in other words, when it enters the voting period). For

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proposal enters the voting period
```

Seems more clear to me this way

> that, the `gov` module hooks `AfterProposalDeposit` can be used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that, the `gov` module's hook `AfterProposalDeposit` can be used. 
```

> If the proposal is an equivocation proposal in voting period for the first time

Reviewer: Clarify this part with more context.

Reviewer: I would rewrite it to something like:
"even after the voting period has started, a proposal can receive additional deposits. The hook is triggered however at arrival of a deposit, so a check to verify that the proposal is not already in voting period is required."

Author: thx for the suggestion, I splited into 2 sentences

(this is important because a proposal can receive additional deposit, even
after its activation), then for each equivocation of the proposal, the related
unbonding operations of the related validator must be paused.

### When unpause

> Similarly, a `gov` module hook can be used, here it's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use a `gov` module's hook also here and it is
```

`AfterProposalVotingPeriodEnded`.

If the proposal is an equivocation proposal, then for each equivocation,
unpause all unbonding operations of the related validator.

## Consequences

### Positive

> - Validators threatened by an equivocation proposal cannot play with the time to

Reviewer: The meaning it's clear but I would rephrase slightly, `cannot play with the time to..` in particular should be rewritten in my opinion

Author: rephrased thx!

  unbond their tokens before the end of the voting period.

### Negative

> - Malicious consumer chain could forge slash packets that allow to submit an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Malicious consumer chain could forge slash packets enabling submission of an
```

>   equivocation proposal on the provider chain, that will freeze validor's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  equivocation proposal on the provider chain, resulting in the freezing of validator's
```

  unbonding periods for an undeterminated amount of time.

> - Misbehavior on consumer can potentially being unpunished, if noone submits an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Misbehavior on consumer chain can potentially go unpunished, if no one submits an
```

>   equivocation proposal or if the proposal doesn't pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  equivocation proposal in time, or if the proposal doesn't pass.
```

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: ADR Template
---
# ADR 007: Pause validator unbonding during equivocation proposal

## Changelog
* 2023-05-16: Initial Draft

## Status

Proposed

## Context

> (Copied from #747)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Copied from [#747](https://github.com/cosmos/interchain-security/issues/747))
```

Currently, if an equivocation slashing proposal is created after more than one
week has passed since the equivocation, it is possible that the validator in
question could unbond and get away without being slashed, since the unbonding
period is 3 weeks, and the voting period is 3 weeks. For this reason, it might
be good to pause unbondings for validators named in an equivocation slashing
proposal until the proposal's voting period is over.

## Decision

### How

Pausing the unbonding period is already possible thanks to the changes in the

> staking module of the cosmos-sdk:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`staking` module of the cosmos-sdk:
```

- `stakingKeeper.PutUnbondingOnHold` pauses an unbonding period
- `stakingKeeper.UnbondingCanComplete` unpauses an unbonding period

> Those methods use a counter under the hood, which means we can use them without 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These methods use a counter under the hood, which means we can use them without 
```

conflicts with the *Completion of Unbonding Operations* system. Giving an
unbonding period (already paused by definition because of the *Completion of
Unbonding Operations* system), an additional pause will just increase the

> counter, so when this unbonding period has reached its maturity on all provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
counter, so when this unbonding period has reached its maturity on provider
```

> and consumer chain, it will remain paused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and all consumer chains, it will remain paused.
```

### When pause

> The unbonding period (if there's any) should be paused once an equivocation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unbonding period (if there is any existing unboding) should be paused once an equivocation
```

Author: fixed manually bc of typo in `unboding`

proposal enters the voting period. For that, the `gov` module's hook
`AfterProposalDeposit` can be used. 

If the hook is triggered with a proposal that is an equivocation proposal in
voting period, then for each equivocation of the proposal, the related
unbonding operations of the related validator must be paused.

Note that even after the voting period has started, a proposal can receive
additional deposits. The hook is triggered however at arrival of a deposit, so
a check to verify that the proposal is not already in voting period is
required.

### When unpause

We can use a `gov` module's hook also here and it is
`AfterProposalVotingPeriodEnded`.

> If the hook is triggered with a proposal that is an equivocation proposal, then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the hook is triggered with an equivocation proposal, then
```

for each equivocation, unpause all unbonding operations of the related
validator.

## Consequences

### Positive

> - Validators threatened by an equivocation proposal cannot fnish unbonding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Validators subject to an equivocation proposal cannot finish unbonding
```

  their tokens before the end of the voting period.

### Negative

> - Malicious consumer chain could forge slash packets enabling submission of an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A malicious consumer chain could forge slash packets enabling submission of an
```

  equivocation proposal on the provider chain, resulting in the freezing of

>   validator's unbonding periods for an undeterminated amount of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  validator's unbondings for an undeterminated amount of time.
```

> - Misbehavior on consumer chain can potentially go unpunished, if no one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Misbehavior on a consumer chain can potentially go unpunished, if no one
```
